# Mini-Python-Project

This project allows for an individual to find the number of deaths caused by COVID-19 in New York State at any given dates. The user inputs five different dates and the code then generates the five death counts that were recorded on each date. The number of deaths are not the numbers of deaths that occured on that day. Instead, the code generates the cumulative number of deaths up until that day in time.

Graphs were developed in order to show the rise in deaths caused by COVID-19. Depending on the dates chosen, the user can see either a rapid or steady increase/decrease in cases that correlates to the handling of the pandemic at the time. For instance, in the winter months, COVID-19 was taking lives at a faster rate compared to the summer months, due to the cold weather. 

The purpose of the notebook is to store the code and outputs for the COVID-19 death rates in NY csv data files. It takes in the data values from the NYS COVID-19 history csv file and creates an input-output system based on how many deaths were caused by COVID-19 cumulatively after each day. The user inputs five dates, in time order, (year-month-day format) and in return, five death counts are outputted according to each date respectively. The code asks for five dates in order to display a trend on how fast or slow the death toll is rising in New York State over a few days, weeks, or months.

First, all of the necessary files and modules were imported in order to have all the data and potentially graph the outputs (os, pandas, and matplotlib.pyplot). Next, the necessary files were opened using the command "X_Name" (X is used as a title for organization), following the codes used to gather the new files from the original CSV file. My files were eventually divided into "Folder", "File", "Output", and "Plot"). To determine each new file, columns were intially created for the print statement. Each column was labeled "date", "state", and "death". Using dataframes, the pandas read_csv function performed the os.path.join method to combine "Folder_Name" and "File_Name" into one path. Using "df = df[Columns]" and "print(df.head())" the first five rows of the dataframe were outputted, showing the user the death tolls in NY at five different dates. This table format was later used when the user was able to add their own dates. Next, an index was used to return the position of an item/object in the string. The dates are used to find the number of deaths cumulatively up until that day, which is the "position". The code then asks the user to input dates of the total COVID-19 death count in NY using an input function. Once the code is able to take in inputs from the user, a table of user-selected values is generated and sorted chronologically. This table is saved as a new CSV file and is opened at the beginning of the program along with the other files. After, the string data times entered by the user are converted into python data time objects, which are then sorted chronologically. Lastly, a dataframe loc function is used to access the rows and columns of data. The files "Folder_Name" and "Output_Name" are also combined into one path. To generate the graph of the data, the axis were labeled with ticks and data values, while the data was imported. The graph was saved as a png file labeled "Plot_Name". The files "Folder_Name" and "Plot_Name" were ultmately joined.
